CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

---
title: Contributing
---

We appreciate your contribution and hope that this document helps you along the way. If you have any questions or problems, don't hesitate to [file an issue](https://github.com/primer/doctocat/issues/new).

<Note>


These guidelines are for contributing to the theme itself, if you are looking for help running a Doctocat site for another project locally, check out the [Local Development](/usage/local-development) docs in the Usage section.

</Note>


## Local development

Run the following commands to begin local development:

<Note>


These steps require [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) and [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) to be set up locally.

</Note>


```shell
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/primer/doctocat.git
cd doctocat

# Install the dependencies
yarn

# Start the development server for the documentation site
yarn workspace docs develop

# Navigate to http://localhost:8000 in your browser
```

## File structure

```
.
├── theme/
├── docs/
├── package.json
└── now.json
```

- `theme/`: This directory contains the code for the [Gatsby Theme](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/themes/what-are-gatsby-themes/) and is what gets published to npm.
- `docs/`: This directory contains the code for the documentation site for Doctocat. The documentation site can also be used to test changes to the theme locally.
- `package.json`: This file defines the [Yarn Workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/workspaces/) for the project and is not meant to be published.
- `now.json`: This file configures the deployment of the documentation site. Check out the [now.json docs](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/?query=now.json) for more information.

## Scripts

The documentation site has a few [npm scripts](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/scripts) for developing and building the site. You can run these scripts from the root directory using the [`yarn workspace`](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/cli/workspace/) command:

```shell
yarn workspace docs <script-name>
```

### `develop`

Starts Gatsby's hot-reloading development environment on http://localhost:8000. This is likely the only script you will run manually.

### `build`

Builds the site for deployment and places the output in `public/`.

### `now-build`

Builds the site for [Now](https://zeit.co/now) deployment. You will never have to run `now-build` manually. Check out the [`@now/static-build` docs](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/advanced/builders/static-build-now-static-build) for more information.

## Bug reports

Guidelines for bug reports:

1. Use the GitHub issue search – check if the issue has already been reported.
2. Check if the issue has been fixed – try to reproduce it using the latest version of the extension.
3. Isolate the problem – find a way to demonstrate your issue. Provide either screenshots or code samples to show you problem.

A good bug report shouldn't leave others needing to chase you down for more information. Please try to be as detailed as possible in your report.

- What is your environment?
- What steps will reproduce the issue?
- What browser(s) versions experience the problem?
- What would you expect to be the outcome?

All these details will help people to fix any potential bugs.

Example:

> Short and descriptive example bug report title
>
> A summary of the issue and the browser/OS environment in which it occurs. If suitable, include the steps required to reproduce the bug.
>
> 1. This is the first step
> 2. This is the second step
> 3. Further steps, etc.
> 4. Attach screenshots, etc.
>
> Any other information you want to share that is relevant to the issue being reported.

## Feature requests

Feature requests are welcome. But take a moment to find out whether your idea fits with the scope and aims of the project. It's up to _you_ to make a strong case to convince the project's developers of the merits of this feature.
Please provide as much detail and context as possible.

## Pull requests

Good pull requests - patches, improvements, new features - are a fantastic help.
They should remain focused in scope and avoid containing unrelated commits.

**Please ask first** before embarking on any significant pull request (e.g. implementing features, refactoring code),
otherwise you risk spending a lot of time working on something that the project's developers might not want to merge into the project.

Please adhere to the coding conventions used throughout a project (indentation, accurate comments, etc.) and any other requirements (such as test coverage).

Follow this process if you'd like your work considered for inclusion in the project:

- [Fork](http://help.github.com/fork-a-repo/) the project, clone your fork, and configure the remotes:

  ```shell
  # Clone your fork of the repository
  git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/doctocat

  # Navigate to the newly cloned directory
  cd doctocat

  # Assign the original repo to a remote called "upstream"
  git remote add upstream https://github.com/primer/doctocat
  ```

- If you cloned a while ago, get the latest changes from upstream:

  ```shell
  git checkout master
  git pull upstream master
  ```

- Create a new topic branch (off of the `master` branch) to contain your feature, change, or fix:

  ```shell
  git checkout -b <topic-branch-name>
  ```

- Install the dependencies:

  ```shell
  yarn
  ```

- Start Gatsby's hot-reloading development environment:

  ```shell
  yarn workspace docs develop
  # The documentation site will now be accessible from http://localhost:8000
  ```

- Commit your changes in logical chunks. You can use Git's [interactive rebase](https://help.github.com/articles/interactive-rebase) feature to tidy up your commits before making them public.

- Locally merge (or rebase) the upstream development branch into your topic branch:

  ```shell
  git pull [--rebase] upstream master
  ```

- Push your topic branch up to your fork:

  ```shell
  git push origin <topic-branch-name>
  ```

- [Open a Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/) with a clear title and description.

Commit message:

chore: update project to use npm (#636)
* chore: remove yarn lockfile

* chore: update project to use npm

* docs: update yarn to npm in docs

* ci: update commands from yarn to npm

* ci: add cache option to setup-node

* update lock file

---------

Co-authored-by: Josh Black <joshblack@github.com>
Co-authored-by: Siddharth Kshetrapal <siddharthkp@github.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

---
title: Contributing
---

We appreciate your contribution and hope that this document helps you along the way. If you have any questions or problems, don't hesitate to [file an issue](https://github.com/primer/doctocat/issues/new).

<Note>

These guidelines are for contributing to the theme itself, if you are looking for help running a Doctocat site for another project locally, check out the [Local Development](/usage/local-development) docs in the Usage section.

</Note>

## Local development

Run the following commands to begin local development:

<Note>

These steps require [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) and [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/downloading-and-installing-node-js-and-npm) to be set up locally.

</Note>

```shell
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/primer/doctocat.git
cd doctocat

# Install the dependencies
npm install

# Start the development server for the documentation site
npm start

# Navigate to http://localhost:8000 in your browser
```

## File structure

```
.
├── theme/
├── docs/
└── package.json
```

- `theme/`: This directory contains the code for the [Gatsby Theme](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/themes/what-are-gatsby-themes/) and is what gets published to npm.
- `docs/`: This directory contains the code for the documentation site for Doctocat. The documentation site can also be used to test changes to the theme locally.
- `package.json`: This file defines the [workspaces](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/using-npm/workspaces) for the project and is not meant to be published.

## Scripts

The documentation site has a few [npm scripts](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/scripts) for developing and building the site. You can run these scripts from the root directory using the [`--workspace`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/using-npm/workspaces#running-commands-in-the-context-of-workspaces), or `-w`, option:

```shell
npm run -w docs <script-name>
```

### `develop`

Starts Gatsby's hot-reloading development environment on http://localhost:8000. This is likely the only script you will run manually.

### `build`

Builds the site for deployment and places the output in `public/`.

### `now-build`

Builds the site for [Now](https://zeit.co/now) deployment. You will never have to run `now-build` manually. Check out the [`@now/static-build` docs](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/advanced/builders/static-build-now-static-build) for more information.

## Bug reports

Guidelines for bug reports:

1. Use the GitHub issue search – check if the issue has already been reported.
2. Check if the issue has been fixed – try to reproduce it using the latest version of the extension.
3. Isolate the problem – find a way to demonstrate your issue. Provide either screenshots or code samples to show you problem.

A good bug report shouldn't leave others needing to chase you down for more information. Please try to be as detailed as possible in your report.

- What is your environment?
- What steps will reproduce the issue?
- What browser(s) versions experience the problem?
- What would you expect to be the outcome?

All these details will help people to fix any potential bugs.

Example:

> Short and descriptive example bug report title
>
> A summary of the issue and the browser/OS environment in which it occurs. If suitable, include the steps required to reproduce the bug.
>
> 1. This is the first step
> 2. This is the second step
> 3. Further steps, etc.
> 4. Attach screenshots, etc.
>
> Any other information you want to share that is relevant to the issue being reported.

## Feature requests

Feature requests are welcome. But take a moment to find out whether your idea fits with the scope and aims of the project. It's up to _you_ to make a strong case to convince the project's developers of the merits of this feature.
Please provide as much detail and context as possible.

## Pull requests

Good pull requests - patches, improvements, new features - are a fantastic help.
They should remain focused in scope and avoid containing unrelated commits.

**Please ask first** before embarking on any significant pull request (e.g. implementing features, refactoring code),
otherwise you risk spending a lot of time working on something that the project's developers might not want to merge into the project.

Please adhere to the coding conventions used throughout a project (indentation, accurate comments, etc.) and any other requirements (such as test coverage).

Follow this process if you'd like your work considered for inclusion in the project:

- [Fork](http://help.github.com/fork-a-repo/) the project, clone your fork, and configure the remotes:

  ```shell
  # Clone your fork of the repository
  git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/doctocat

  # Navigate to the newly cloned directory
  cd doctocat

  # Assign the original repo to a remote called "upstream"
  git remote add upstream https://github.com/primer/doctocat
  ```

- If you cloned a while ago, get the latest changes from upstream:

  ```shell
  git checkout master
  git pull upstream master
  ```

- Create a new topic branch (off of the `master` branch) to contain your feature, change, or fix:

  ```shell
  git checkout -b <topic-branch-name>
  ```

- Install the dependencies:

  ```shell
  npm i
  ```

- Start Gatsby's hot-reloading development environment:

  ```shell
  npm start
  # The documentation site will now be accessible from http://localhost:8000
  ```

- Commit your changes in logical chunks. You can use Git's [interactive rebase](https://help.github.com/articles/interactive-rebase) feature to tidy up your commits before making them public.

- Locally merge (or rebase) the upstream development branch into your topic branch:

  ```shell
  git pull [--rebase] upstream master
  ```

- Push your topic branch up to your fork:

  ```shell
  git push origin <topic-branch-name>
  ```

- [Open a Pull Request](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/) with a clear title and description.
