docs/content/components/do-dont.mdx, before:

---
title: Do/Don't
status: New
source: https://github.com/primer/doctocat/blob/master/theme/src/components/do-dont.js
---

The `Do` and `Dont` components are used for providing good and bad examples within documentation.

## Usage

To use these components in your MDX files, import them like so:

```js
import {DoDontContainer, Do, Dont} from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat'
```

### Side-by-side

To create a side-by-side Do/Don't example, wrap the `Do` and `Dont` components with the `DoDontContainer` component:

```jsx live
<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/63106528-06de5100-bf51-11e9-8a5e-98583ed74874.png" />
    <Caption>Use brief and direct communication</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/63106527-06de5100-bf51-11e9-858c-72de6a5c728a.png" />
    <Caption>Don't use wordy and redundant copy</Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>
```

_Note: Caption text should describe the image and be able to stand on its own. The `alt` prop should be used if a more detailed description of the image is needed._

### Stacked

The `DoDontContainer` component also accepts a `stacked` prop to create stacked Do/Don't examples:

```jsx live
<DoDontContainer stacked>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/63046880-46e5fb00-bea1-11e9-836d-be1b1c7d963f.png" />
    <Caption>Use a container class to give the text a max-width</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/63046881-46e5fb00-bea1-11e9-87ee-80dbeb0bea1c.png" />
    <Caption>Don't let the text span the entire width of the window</Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>
```

Commit message:

Make do/don't components shortcodes

docs/content/components/do-dont.mdx, after:

---
title: Do/Don't
status: New
source: https://github.com/primer/doctocat/blob/master/theme/src/components/do-dont.js
---

The `Do` and `Dont` components are used for providing good and bad examples within documentation.

## Usage

`Do`, `Dont` and `DoDontContainer` are a [shortcodes](https://mdxjs.com/blog/shortcodes), meaning they are globally available in all `.md` and `.mdx` files. So you can use the `Do`, `Dont`, and `DoDontContainer` components in any `.md` or `.mdx` file without importing them.

### Side-by-side

To create a side-by-side Do/Don't example, wrap the `Do` and `Dont` components with the `DoDontContainer` component:

```jsx live
<DoDontContainer>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/63106528-06de5100-bf51-11e9-8a5e-98583ed74874.png" />
    <Caption>Use brief and direct communication</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/63106527-06de5100-bf51-11e9-858c-72de6a5c728a.png" />
    <Caption>Don't use wordy and redundant copy</Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>
```

_Note: Caption text should describe the image and be able to stand on its own. The `alt` prop should be used if a more detailed description of the image is needed._

### Stacked

The `DoDontContainer` component also accepts a `stacked` prop to create stacked Do/Don't examples:

```jsx live
<DoDontContainer stacked>
  <Do>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/63046880-46e5fb00-bea1-11e9-836d-be1b1c7d963f.png" />
    <Caption>Use a container class to give the text a max-width</Caption>
  </Do>
  <Dont>
    <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/586552/63046881-46e5fb00-bea1-11e9-87ee-80dbeb0bea1c.png" />
    <Caption>Don't let the text span the entire width of the window</Caption>
  </Dont>
</DoDontContainer>
```
