docs/content/usage/customization.mdx, before:

---
title: Customization
description: Here are a few ways you can customize your Doctocat site.
---

import {Box} from '@primer/react'
import {Contributors} from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat'

## Site metadata

You can customize your site's metadata via the `siteMetadata` object in `gatsby-config.js`:

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    // Used for page titles and SEO
    title: 'My Site',
    // Used in the header
    shortName: 'My Site',
    // Used for SEO
    description: 'My site description',
    // Used for social previews
    imageUrl: 'https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/example-image.png',
  },
}
```

## Side navigation

Side navigation for your site is generated from the content in `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/nav.yml`. Edit that file to customize your side navigation. Each entry in `nav.yml` should have a `title`, `url`, and an optional `children` list to create nested navigation links:

```yml
# src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/nav.yml
- title: Example
  url: /example
  children:
    - title: Example 2
      url: /example/example-2
```

<Note variant="warning">Doctocat only supports one level of nesting.</Note>

## Repository

Doctocat has a few features that rely on information about your repository, including:

- "Edit this page on GitHub" links on the bottom of every page
- Contributors on the bottom of every page
- Repository link in the sidebar

To enable these features, you'll need to specify your site's [`repository`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#repository) in `package.json`:

```json
// package.json
{
  "repository": "repo-owner/repo-name"
}
```

## Subdirectories

If your site is located in a subdirectory of a repository, you'll also need to provide the relative path to the root of your git repository via the `repoRootPath` option in `gatsby-config.js`:

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat',
      options: {
        repoRootPath: '..', // defaults to '.'
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

## Default branch

If your site uses a branch other than `master` for your default branch, you'll also need to let Doctocat know via the `defaultBranch` option in `gatsby-config.js`:

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat',
      options: {
        defaultBranch: 'main', // defaults to 'master'
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

## Contributors

If you have the `repository` in `package.json` and `repoRootPath` in `gatsby-config.js` set up correctly (as described [above](#edit-on-github-link)), Doctocat will automatically display contributors on the bottom of every page, like so:

<Box
  borderWidth="1px"
  borderStyle="solid"
  borderColor="border.default"
  borderRadius={2}
  p={4}
  mb={3}
>
  <Contributors
    contributors={[
      {
        login: 'colebemis',
        latestCommit: {
          url: '#',
          date: '2019-08-15T23:40:19Z',
        },
      },
      {
        login: 'emplums',
        latestCommit: {
          url: '#',
          date: '2019-08-14T00:19:54Z',
        },
      },
    ]}
  />
</Box>

These contributors are determined by commits. However, we know that commits aren't the only way to contribute. You can use [front matter](/usage/front-matter#additional-contributors) to give credit to people who aren't listed in the commit history but still contributed.

## Hero

To add a hero section to a page, you'll need to override the default layout component with Doctocat's `HeroLayout` component by exporting it from your MDX file:

```markdown
// index.mdx
import {HeroLayout} from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat'
export default HeroLayout
```

`HeroLayout` is similar to the default layout component except it also renders a `Hero` component displaying the `title` and `description` defined in the `siteMetadata` object from `gatsby-config.js`:

```jsx live
<Hero />
```

To use a custom hero component, [shadow](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/) Doctocat's default `Hero` component by creating a `hero.js` file in `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/components`:

```jsx
// src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/components/hero.js
import {Box} from '@primer/react'
import React from 'react'

export default function Hero() {
  return (
    <Box bg="black" p={5}>
      My Custom Hero
    </Box>
  )
}
```

## Favicon

If you want to override the default favicon, you can pass a relative path to a custom icon as a theme option in your `gatsby-config.js`:

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat',
      options: {
        icon: './src/images/custom-icon-512.png', // This path is relative to the root of the site.
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

Doctocat uses [`gatsby-plugin-manifest`](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-manifest/) to generate a pre-configured set of icons from your image. For best results, if you’re providing an icon for generation, it should be:

- 512x512 pixels or larger.
- Square. If it’s not, the image will be [letterboxed](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letterboxing_(filming)>) with a transparent background.
- JPEG, PNG, WebP, TIFF, GIF, or SVG format.

## MDX components

Doctocat uses [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/) to allow you to embed React components in your markdown files and provides a few React [components](/components) that are globally available in all `.md` and `.mdx` files (no import required). To add custom components to this list of globally available components, create an `mdx-components.js` file in `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/` and export your custom components from this file:

```js
// src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/mdx-components.js
import {SomeComponent} from 'path/to/some-component'

export default {
  SomeComponent,
}
```

```md
---
title: Some markdown file
---

You can now use your component in any markdown file like so:

<SomeComponent />
```

Commit message:

Use NavList component (#427)
* Use NavList component

* Bump primer/react version

* Update navlist usage

* Update nav.yml to remove url from group items

* Create rich-moles-rescue.md

* Update theme/src/components/sidebar.js

* Update docs

* Update docs/src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/nav.yml

* Bump @primer/react version

* Mock ResizeObserver

* Update mobile table of contents padding

docs/content/usage/customization.mdx, after:

---
title: Customization
description: Here are a few ways you can customize your Doctocat site.
---

import {Box} from '@primer/react'
import {Contributors} from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat'

## Site metadata

You can customize your site's metadata via the `siteMetadata` object in `gatsby-config.js`:

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
    // Used for page titles and SEO
    title: 'My Site',
    // Used in the header
    shortName: 'My Site',
    // Used for SEO
    description: 'My site description',
    // Used for social previews
    imageUrl: 'https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/example-image.png',
  },
}
```

## Side navigation

Side navigation for your site is generated from the content in `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/nav.yml`. Edit that file to customize your side navigation. Each entry in `nav.yml` should have a `title` and either a `url` or a `children` list to create a group of links:

```yml
# src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/nav.yml
- title: Example
  children:
    - title: Example 2
      url: /example/example-2
```

Entries with `children` cannot also have a `url`.

<Note variant="warning">Doctocat only supports one level of nesting. </Note>

## Repository

Doctocat has a few features that rely on information about your repository, including:

- "Edit this page on GitHub" links on the bottom of every page
- Contributors on the bottom of every page
- Repository link in the sidebar

To enable these features, you'll need to specify your site's [`repository`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#repository) in `package.json`:

```json
// package.json
{
  "repository": "repo-owner/repo-name"
}
```

## Subdirectories

If your site is located in a subdirectory of a repository, you'll also need to provide the relative path to the root of your git repository via the `repoRootPath` option in `gatsby-config.js`:

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat',
      options: {
        repoRootPath: '..', // defaults to '.'
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

## Default branch

If your site uses a branch other than `master` for your default branch, you'll also need to let Doctocat know via the `defaultBranch` option in `gatsby-config.js`:

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat',
      options: {
        defaultBranch: 'main', // defaults to 'master'
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

## Contributors

If you have the `repository` in `package.json` and `repoRootPath` in `gatsby-config.js` set up correctly (as described [above](#edit-on-github-link)), Doctocat will automatically display contributors on the bottom of every page, like so:

<Box
  borderWidth="1px"
  borderStyle="solid"
  borderColor="border.default"
  borderRadius={2}
  p={4}
  mb={3}
>
  <Contributors
    contributors={[
      {
        login: 'colebemis',
        latestCommit: {
          url: '#',
          date: '2019-08-15T23:40:19Z',
        },
      },
      {
        login: 'emplums',
        latestCommit: {
          url: '#',
          date: '2019-08-14T00:19:54Z',
        },
      },
    ]}
  />
</Box>

These contributors are determined by commits. However, we know that commits aren't the only way to contribute. You can use [front matter](/usage/front-matter#additional-contributors) to give credit to people who aren't listed in the commit history but still contributed.

## Hero

To add a hero section to a page, you'll need to override the default layout component with Doctocat's `HeroLayout` component by exporting it from your MDX file:

```markdown
// index.mdx
import {HeroLayout} from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat'
export default HeroLayout
```

`HeroLayout` is similar to the default layout component except it also renders a `Hero` component displaying the `title` and `description` defined in the `siteMetadata` object from `gatsby-config.js`:

```jsx live
<Hero />
```

To use a custom hero component, [shadow](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/) Doctocat's default `Hero` component by creating a `hero.js` file in `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/components`:

```jsx
// src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/components/hero.js
import {Box} from '@primer/react'
import React from 'react'

export default function Hero() {
  return (
    <Box bg="black" p={5}>
      My Custom Hero
    </Box>
  )
}
```

## Favicon

If you want to override the default favicon, you can pass a relative path to a custom icon as a theme option in your `gatsby-config.js`:

```js
// gatsby-config.js
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    {
      resolve: '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat',
      options: {
        icon: './src/images/custom-icon-512.png', // This path is relative to the root of the site.
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

Doctocat uses [`gatsby-plugin-manifest`](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/packages/gatsby-plugin-manifest/) to generate a pre-configured set of icons from your image. For best results, if you’re providing an icon for generation, it should be:

- 512x512 pixels or larger.
- Square. If it’s not, the image will be [letterboxed](<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Letterboxing_(filming)>) with a transparent background.
- JPEG, PNG, WebP, TIFF, GIF, or SVG format.

## MDX components

Doctocat uses [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/) to allow you to embed React components in your markdown files and provides a few React [components](/components) that are globally available in all `.md` and `.mdx` files (no import required). To add custom components to this list of globally available components, create an `mdx-components.js` file in `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/` and export your custom components from this file:

```js
// src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/mdx-components.js
import {SomeComponent} from 'path/to/some-component'

export default {
  SomeComponent,
}
```

```md
---
title: Some markdown file
---

You can now use your component in any markdown file like so:

<SomeComponent />
```
