docs/content/usage/front-matter.mdx, before:

---
title: Front matter
---

import {Box} from '@primer/react'
import {StatusLabel} from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat'
import StorybookLink from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/src/components/storybook-link'
import SourceLink from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/src/components/source-link'


When you create a Markdown file (`.md` or `.mdx`) in `src/pages/`, you can define variables to provide additional information about that page. This information is called front matter and is set between triple dashes starting on the first line of the file:

```
---
title: Example title
---
```

Doctocat recognizes some specific front matter variables described below.

## Title and description

`title` is used to render the page heading and generate the [page title](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/title). `description` is used to create a [meta description tag](https://moz.com/learn/seo/meta-description) which is important for SEO. We recommend setting `title` and `description` for every page:

```markdown
---
title: My page title
description: My page description
---
```

## Component metadata

To auto-populate the `title` and `description` of a component page using metadata from the [primer/component-metadata](https://github.com/primer/component-metadat) repository, add the `componentId` frontmatter variable:

```markdown
---
componentId: avatar
---
```

<Note>

`componentId` must match the `id` of a component in this [metadata.json](https://github.com/primer/component-metadata/blob/main/metadata.json) file.

</Note>

## Status

You can add a status label to any page by setting a `status` variable in the frontmatter:

```markdown
---
status: Stable
---
```

Doctocat comes with a few predefined statuses that have colors associated with them:

| Status         | Output                                | Meaning                                                                |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------- |------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Alpha`        | <StatusLabel status="Alpha" />        | Experimental. Breaking changes are likely. |
| `Beta`         | <StatusLabel status="Beta" />         | Usage encouraged, but not required.                                    |
| `Stable`       | <StatusLabel status="Stable" />       | Usage expected.                                                        |
| `Deprecated`   | <StatusLabel status="Deprecated" />   | Usage not allowed. May be removed at any time.                         |

Custom statuses will render a gray dot:

<StatusLabel status="My custom status" />

## Source

Sometimes it's useful to provide quick access to relevant source code. You can use the `source` front matter variable to do that:

```
---
source: https://github.com/path/to/code
---
```

If the `source` front matter variable is defined, Doctocat will add a source code link to the top of the page, like this:

<Box borderWidth="1px" borderStyle="solid" borderColor="border.default" borderRadius={2} p={4} mb={3}>
  <SourceLink href="#" />
</Box>

<Note>


This source code link is not the same as the "Edit this page on GitHub" link that is automatically added to the bottom of every page. The source code link should point to code that is relevant to the page. The "Edit this page on GitHub" link points to the Markdown file for the page itself.

</Note>

## Storybook

 You can use the `storybook` front matter variable to link to [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) stories:

```
---
storybook: https://primer.style/view-components/stories/?path=/story/primer-avatar-component
---
```

If the `storybook` front matter variable is defined, Doctocat will add a storybook link to the top of the page, like this:

<Box borderWidth="1px" borderStyle="solid" borderColor="border.default" borderRadius={2} p={4} mb={3}>
  <StorybookLink href="#" />
</Box>


## Additional contributors

If you have the `repository` in `package.json` and `repoRootPath` in `gatsby-config.js` setup correctly (as described in the [customization](/usage/customization#contributors) guide), Doctocat will automatically display contributors on the bottom of every page. These contributors are determined by commits. However, we know that commits aren't the only way to contribute. To give credit to people who aren't listed in the commit history but still contributed, use the `additionalContributors` front matter variable to list their GitHub usernames, for example:

```markdown
---
additionalContributors:
  - ashygee
  - emplums
---
```

Commit message:

Adding support for a Lookbook link

docs/content/usage/front-matter.mdx, after:

---
title: Front matter
---

import {Box} from '@primer/react'
import {StatusLabel} from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat'
import StorybookLink from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/src/components/storybook-link'
import SourceLink from '@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/src/components/source-link'


When you create a Markdown file (`.md` or `.mdx`) in `src/pages/`, you can define variables to provide additional information about that page. This information is called front matter and is set between triple dashes starting on the first line of the file:

```
---
title: Example title
---
```

Doctocat recognizes some specific front matter variables described below.

## Title and description

`title` is used to render the page heading and generate the [page title](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/title). `description` is used to create a [meta description tag](https://moz.com/learn/seo/meta-description) which is important for SEO. We recommend setting `title` and `description` for every page:

```markdown
---
title: My page title
description: My page description
---
```

## Component metadata

To auto-populate the `title` and `description` of a component page using metadata from the [primer/component-metadata](https://github.com/primer/component-metadat) repository, add the `componentId` frontmatter variable:

```markdown
---
componentId: avatar
---
```

<Note>

`componentId` must match the `id` of a component in this [metadata.json](https://github.com/primer/component-metadata/blob/main/metadata.json) file.

</Note>

## Status

You can add a status label to any page by setting a `status` variable in the frontmatter:

```markdown
---
status: Stable
---
```

Doctocat comes with a few predefined statuses that have colors associated with them:

| Status         | Output                                | Meaning                                                                |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------- |------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Alpha`        | <StatusLabel status="Alpha" />        | Experimental. Breaking changes are likely. |
| `Beta`         | <StatusLabel status="Beta" />         | Usage encouraged, but not required.                                    |
| `Stable`       | <StatusLabel status="Stable" />       | Usage expected.                                                        |
| `Deprecated`   | <StatusLabel status="Deprecated" />   | Usage not allowed. May be removed at any time.                         |

Custom statuses will render a gray dot:

<StatusLabel status="My custom status" />

## Source

Sometimes it's useful to provide quick access to relevant source code. You can use the `source` front matter variable to do that:

```
---
source: https://github.com/path/to/code
---
```

If the `source` front matter variable is defined, Doctocat will add a source code link to the top of the page, like this:

<Box borderWidth="1px" borderStyle="solid" borderColor="border.default" borderRadius={2} p={4} mb={3}>
  <SourceLink href="#" />
</Box>

<Note>


This source code link is not the same as the "Edit this page on GitHub" link that is automatically added to the bottom of every page. The source code link should point to code that is relevant to the page. The "Edit this page on GitHub" link points to the Markdown file for the page itself.

</Note>

## Storybook

 You can use the `storybook` front matter variable to link to [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org/) stories:

```
---
storybook: https://primer.style/view-components/stories/?path=/story/primer-avatar-component
---
```

If the `storybook` front matter variable is defined, Doctocat will add a storybook link to the top of the page, like this:

<Box borderWidth="1px" borderStyle="solid" borderColor="border.default" borderRadius={2} p={4} mb={3}>
  <StorybookLink href="#" />
</Box>


## Lookbook

 You can use the `lookbook` front matter variable to link to [Lookbook](http://lookbook.build/) previews:

```
---
lookbook: https://primer.style/view-components/lookbook/inspect/primer/avatar
---
```

If the `lookbook` front matter variable is defined, Doctocat will add a lookbook link to the top of the page, like this:

<Box borderWidth="1px" borderStyle="solid" borderColor="border.default" borderRadius={2} p={4} mb={3}>
  <LookbookLink href="#" />
</Box>


## Additional contributors

If you have the `repository` in `package.json` and `repoRootPath` in `gatsby-config.js` setup correctly (as described in the [customization](/usage/customization#contributors) guide), Doctocat will automatically display contributors on the bottom of every page. These contributors are determined by commits. However, we know that commits aren't the only way to contribute. To give credit to people who aren't listed in the commit history but still contributed, use the `additionalContributors` front matter variable to list their GitHub usernames, for example:

```markdown
---
additionalContributors:
  - ashygee
  - emplums
---
```
