docs/content/usage/live-code.mdx, before:

---
title: Live code
---

Doctocat can render code blocks as live previews with editable code using [react-live](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-live). To make a code block render as an editable example, add a `live` attribute after the language:

````markdown
```jsx live
<button>Hello, world!</button>
```
````

Here's how the above example will render on a page:

```jsx live
<button>Hello, world!</button>
```

## Scope

Before you can use components or other variables in live code examples, you'll need to add them to the global scope of live previews. Otherwise, the live previews will display a `ReferenceError`, like this:

```jsx live
// `Foo` was not added to the global scope of live previews.
<Foo>Hello, world!</Foo>
```

You can add variables to the global scope of live previews by [shadowing](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/) `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/live-code-scope.js`:

```js
// src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/live-code-scope.js
import {Box} from '@primer/components'

export default {
  Box,
  text: 'Hello, world!',
}
```

Every property on the object exported by `live-code-scope.js` will be available as a variable in the code:

````markdown
```jsx live
<Box p={3}>{text}</Box>
```
````

## Global styles

Live previews are completely isolated from the rest of the page because they are rendered inside [iframes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe). This means that you can apply global styles inside live previews without affecting the rest of the page:

```jsx live
<div>
  <style>{`p { color: red; }`}</style>
  <p>
    This text should be red. All other text on the page should be unaffected.
  </p>
</div>
```

You can apply global styles to _all_ live previews on your site by [shadowing](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/) `live-preview-wrapper.js` with a component that renders a `style` or `link` tag:

```jsx
// src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/components/live-preview-wrapper.js
import React from 'react'

export default function LivePreviewWrapper({children}) {
  return (
    <div>
      <link href="https://unpkg.com/primer/build/build.css" rel="stylesheet" />
      {children}
    </div>
  )
}
```

Commit message:

Support html in live code

docs/content/usage/live-code.mdx, after:

---
title: Live code
---

Doctocat can render code blocks as live previews with editable code using [react-live](https://github.com/FormidableLabs/react-live). To make a code block render as an editable example, add a `live` attribute after the language:

````markdown
```jsx live
<button>Hello, world!</button>
```
````

Here's how the above example will render on a page:

```jsx live
<button>Hello, world!</button>
```

Doctocat currently supports live code examples for `jsx` and `html`.

## Scope

Before you can use components or other variables in live code examples, you'll need to add them to the global scope of live previews. Otherwise, the live previews will display a `ReferenceError`, like this:

```jsx live
// `Foo` was not added to the global scope of live previews.
<Foo>Hello, world!</Foo>
```

You can add variables to the global scope of live previews by [shadowing](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/) `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/live-code-scope.js`:

```js
// src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/live-code-scope.js
import {Box} from '@primer/components'

export default {
  Box,
  text: 'Hello, world!',
}
```

Every property on the object exported by `live-code-scope.js` will be available as a variable in the code:

````markdown
```jsx live
<Box p={3}>{text}</Box>
```
````

## Global styles

Live previews are completely isolated from the rest of the page because they are rendered inside [iframes](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/iframe). This means that you can apply global styles inside live previews without affecting the rest of the page:

```jsx live
<div>
  <style>{`p { color: red; }`}</style>
  <p>
    This text should be red. All other text on the page should be unaffected.
  </p>
</div>
```

You can apply global styles to _all_ live previews on your site by [shadowing](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/) `live-preview-wrapper.js` with a component that renders a `style` or `link` tag:

```jsx
// src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/components/live-preview-wrapper.js
import React from 'react'

export default function LivePreviewWrapper({children}) {
  return (
    <div>
      <link href="https://unpkg.com/primer/build/build.css" rel="stylesheet" />
      {children}
    </div>
  )
}
```
