docs/content/getting-started/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started
additionalContributors:
  - ashygee
  - emplums
  - shawnbot
---

This guide will walk you through creating, customizing, and deploying a new site with Doctocat using our [template repository](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-template). If you have an existing repository where you would like to create a new site, we recommend using the Gatsby CLI instead. Check out the [Gatsby CLI guide](/getting-started/gatsby-cli) for more information.

## 1. Create a new repository from the template

Use the [Doctocat template](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-starter) to create a new repository. See "[Creating a repository from a template](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-repository-from-a-template)" for more information about using template repositories.

![Use this template button](https://help.github.com/assets/images/help/repository/use-this-template-button.png)

Let's check out the directory structure of your new repository:

```
.
├── gatsby-config.js
├── content/
├── src/
│   └── @primer/
│       └── gatsby-theme-doctocat
├── package.json
└── now.json
```

- `gatsby-config.js`: This is your [Gatsby configuration](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-config/), where you can specify information about your site (such as title and description), and any additional [Gatsby plugins](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/plugins/).
- `content/`: This is where you will spend most of your time writing documentation. Markdown files (`.md` or `.mdx`) in `content/` will be interpreted as [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/), a combination of standard Markdown and [React JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/jsx-in-depth.html). Each document [becomes a page](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/recipes/#creating-pages) on your site with a URL based on its path relative to `content/`.
- `src/`: This directory will contain any supporting files such as assets and custom React components.
  - `@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/`: You can use this directory to customize the look and behavior of the theme. All files placed in this directory will "shadow" files in the `src` directory of the Doctocat theme. Check out "[What is Component Shadowing?](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/)" for more information.
- `package.json`: This file contains metadata like the project's name, repository, and a list of packages the project depends on. Check out the [package.json docs](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json) for more information.
- `now.json`: When using [Now](https://zeit.co/now) to deploy, the configuration for your deployment is read from this file. Check out the [now.json docs](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/?query=now.json) for more information. Feel free to delete this file if you don't plan to deploy your site or want to use a different deployment service, like [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) or [Surge](https://surge.sh/).

## 2. Update your site metadata

After you've created the repository, you'll want to customize the information about your site. Start by replacing the site metadata in the `gatsby-config.js` file:

```diff
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
-   title: 'Doctocat Template',
-   shortName: 'Doctocat Template',
-   description: 'A Doctocat template site.',
+   title: 'My Site', // Used for the page titles and SEO
+   shortName: 'My Site', // Used in the header
+   description: 'My site description.', // Used for SEO
  },
  ...
}
```

Next, open the `package.json` file and update the `name` and `repository` field:

```diff
{
- "name": "doctocat-template",
- "repository": "primer/doctocat-template",
+ "name": "my-site",
+ "repository": "my-username/my-site",
  ...
}
```

_Note: Doctocat uses the [`repository`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#repository) field in `package.json` as well as the [`repoRootPath` theme option](/theme-options) in `gatsby-config.js` to generate edit links for every page._

You'll also want to update the `name` field in the `now.json` file:

```diff
{
- "name": "doctocat-template"
+ "name": "my-site"
  ...
}
```

## 3. Add your content

Next, go ahead and put your Markdown documents (`.md` or `.mdx`) in `content/`. Documents in `content/` automatically become pages with URLs based on their path relative to `content/`. For example, if you create a `content/components/box.md` file, Doctocat will use that file to create a `/components/box` page.

## 4. Update your side navigation

Side navigation for your site is generated from the content in `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/nav.yml`. After you've put your documents in `content/`, update the `nav.yml` file accordingly:

```yml
- title: Example
  url: '/example'
  items:
    - title: Example 2
      url: '/example/example-2'
```

## 5. Deploy to Vercel

After you've customized the content of your site, you're ready to deploy. There are many ways to deploy your site, but we currently use [Vercel](https://vercel.com) for most of our sites, and have found it to be an easy way to get sites up and running quickly. The easiest way to deploy to Vercel is with their GitHub integration. You'll need to create a Vercel account, connect your GitHub account, then enable the integration for your repository. Check out the [Vercel for GitHub docs](https://vercel.com/docs/v2/git-integrations/vercel-for-github) for more detailed instructions.

Once you have the GitHub integration set up, you should be able to access your site from a prefixed `.vercel.app` domain.

## 6. Add a primer.style path alias

To make your site available from `primer.style/my-site`, check out "[Adding a primer.style path alias](/usage/deployment#adding-a-primer.style-path-alias)" in the [Deployment](/usage/deployment) guide.

## What's next?

Check out the [customization](/usage/customization) guide.

Commit message:

add deployment workflows for GitHub Pages (#413)
* switch to pages

* downgrade node

* fix output dir

* fix output path

docs/content/getting-started/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started
additionalContributors:
  - ashygee
  - emplums
  - shawnbot
---

This guide will walk you through creating, customizing, and deploying a new site with Doctocat using our [template repository](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-template). If you have an existing repository where you would like to create a new site, we recommend using the Gatsby CLI instead. Check out the [Gatsby CLI guide](/getting-started/gatsby-cli) for more information.

## 1. Create a new repository from the template

Use the [Doctocat template](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-starter) to create a new repository. See "[Creating a repository from a template](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-repository-from-a-template)" for more information about using template repositories.

![Use this template button](https://help.github.com/assets/images/help/repository/use-this-template-button.png)

Let's check out the directory structure of your new repository:

```
.
├── gatsby-config.js
├── content/
├── src/
│   └── @primer/
│       └── gatsby-theme-doctocat
├── package.json
└── now.json
```

- `gatsby-config.js`: This is your [Gatsby configuration](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-config/), where you can specify information about your site (such as title and description), and any additional [Gatsby plugins](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/plugins/).
- `content/`: This is where you will spend most of your time writing documentation. Markdown files (`.md` or `.mdx`) in `content/` will be interpreted as [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/), a combination of standard Markdown and [React JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/jsx-in-depth.html). Each document [becomes a page](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/recipes/#creating-pages) on your site with a URL based on its path relative to `content/`.
- `src/`: This directory will contain any supporting files such as assets and custom React components.
  - `@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/`: You can use this directory to customize the look and behavior of the theme. All files placed in this directory will "shadow" files in the `src` directory of the Doctocat theme. Check out "[What is Component Shadowing?](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/)" for more information.
- `package.json`: This file contains metadata like the project's name, repository, and a list of packages the project depends on. Check out the [package.json docs](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json) for more information.
- `now.json`: When using [Now](https://zeit.co/now) to deploy, the configuration for your deployment is read from this file. Check out the [now.json docs](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/?query=now.json) for more information. Feel free to delete this file if you don't plan to deploy your site or want to use a different deployment service, like [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) or [Surge](https://surge.sh/).

## 2. Update your site metadata

After you've created the repository, you'll want to customize the information about your site. Start by replacing the site metadata in the `gatsby-config.js` file:

```diff
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
-   title: 'Doctocat Template',
-   shortName: 'Doctocat Template',
-   description: 'A Doctocat template site.',
+   title: 'My Site', // Used for the page titles and SEO
+   shortName: 'My Site', // Used in the header
+   description: 'My site description.', // Used for SEO
  },
  ...
}
```

Next, open the `package.json` file and update the `name` and `repository` field:

```diff
{
- "name": "doctocat-template",
- "repository": "primer/doctocat-template",
+ "name": "my-site",
+ "repository": "my-username/my-site",
  ...
}
```

_Note: Doctocat uses the [`repository`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#repository) field in `package.json` as well as the [`repoRootPath` theme option](/theme-options) in `gatsby-config.js` to generate edit links for every page._

You'll also want to update the `name` field in the `now.json` file:

```diff
{
- "name": "doctocat-template"
+ "name": "my-site"
  ...
}
```

## 3. Add your content

Next, go ahead and put your Markdown documents (`.md` or `.mdx`) in `content/`. Documents in `content/` automatically become pages with URLs based on their path relative to `content/`. For example, if you create a `content/components/box.md` file, Doctocat will use that file to create a `/components/box` page.

## 4. Update your side navigation

Side navigation for your site is generated from the content in `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/nav.yml`. After you've put your documents in `content/`, update the `nav.yml` file accordingly:

```yml
- title: Example
  url: '/example'
  items:
    - title: Example 2
      url: '/example/example-2'
```

## 5. Deploy to GitHub Pages

After you've customized the content of your site, you're ready to deploy. There are many ways to deploy your site, but we currently use [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/) for most of our sites, and have found it to be an easy way to get sites up and running quickly.

## 6. Add a primer.style path alias

To make your site available from `primer.style/my-site`, please reach out to #primer on Slack with your requirements. In the meantime, check out "[Adding a primer.style path alias](/usage/deployment#adding-a-primer.style-path-alias)" in the [Deployment](/usage/deployment) guide.

## What's next?

Check out the [customization](/usage/customization) guide.
