packages/example/src/pages/getting-started.mdx, before:

---
title: Getting started
---

This guide will walk you through creating, customizing, and deploying a new site with Doctocat using our [template repository](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-template). If you have an existing repository where you would like to create a new site, we recommend using the Gatsby CLI instead. Check out the [Gatsby CLI guide](/guides/gatsby-cli) for more information.

## 1. Create a new repository from the template

Use the [Doctocat template](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-starter) to create a new repository. See "[Creating a repository from a template](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-repository-from-a-template)" for more information about using template repositories.

![Use this template button](https://help.github.com/assets/images/help/repository/use-this-template-button.png)

Let's check out the directory structure of your new repository:

```
.
├── gatsby-config.js
├── src
│   ├── pages
│   └── @primer
│       └── gatsby-theme-carbon
├── package.json
└── now.json
```

- `gatsby-config.js`: This is your [Gatsby configuration](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-config/), where you can specify information about your site (such as title and description), and any additional [Gatsby plugins](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/plugins/).
- `src/`: This directory will contain all of your site's content and any supporting files such as assets and custom React components.
  - `pages/`: This is where you will spend most of your time writing documentation. Markdown files (`.md` or `.mdx`) in `src/pages/` will be interpreted as [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/), a combination of standard Markdown and [React JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/jsx-in-depth.html). Each document [becomes a page](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/recipes/#creating-pages) on your site with a URL based on its path relative to `src/pages/`.
  - `@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/`: You can use this directory to customize the look and behavior of the theme. All files placed in this directory will "shadow" files in the `src` directory of the Doctocat theme. Check out "[What is Component Shadowing?](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/)" for more information.
- `package.json`: This file contains metadata like the project's name, repository, and a list of packages the project depends on. Check out the [package.json docs](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json) for more information.
- `now.json`: When using [Now](https://zeit.co/now) to deploy, the configuration for your deployment is read from this file. Check out the [now.json docs](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/?query=now.json) for more information. Feel free to delete this file if you don't plan to deploy your site or want to use a different deployment service, like [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) or [Surge](https://surge.sh/).

## 2. Update your site metadata

After you've created the repository, you'll want to customize the information about your site. Start by replacing the site metadata in the `gatsby-config.js` file:

```diff
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
-   name: 'Doctocat Template',
-   description: 'A Doctocat template site.',
+   name: 'My Site',
+   description: 'My site description.',
  },
  ...
}
```

Next, open the `package.json` file and update the `name` and `repository` field:

```diff
{
- "name": "doctocat-template",
- "repository": "primer/doctocat-template",
+ "name": "my-site",
+ "respository": "my-username/my-site",
  ...
}
```

_Note: Doctocat uses the [`repository`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#repository) field from `package.json` to generate edit links for every page._

You'll also want to update the `name` field in the `now.json` file:

```diff
{
- "name": "doctocat-template"
+ "name": "my-site"
  ...
}
```

## 3. Add your content

Next, go ahead and put your Markdown documents (`.md` or `.mdx`) in `src/pages/`. Documents in `src/pages/` automatically become pages with URLs based on their path relative to `src/pages/`. For example, if you create a `src/pages/components/box.md` file, Gatsby will use the content of that file to create a `/components/box` page.

## 4. Update navigation

Side navigation for your site is generated from the content in `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/nav.yml`. After you've put your documents in `src/pages/`, update that `nav.yml` file accordingly:

```yml
- title: Example
  url: '/example'
  items:
    - title: Example 2
      url: '/example/example-2'
```

## 5. Deploy to Now

After you've customized the content of your site, you're ready to deploy. There are many ways to deploy your site but we recommend using [Now](https://zeit.co/now). The easiest way to deploy to Now is with their GitHub integration. You'll need to create a Now account, connect your GitHub account, then enable the integration for your repository. Check out the [Now for GitHub docs](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/integrations/now-for-github/) for more detailed instructions.

Once you have the GitHub integration set up, you should be able to access your site from a prefixed `.now.sh` domain.

## 6. Set up primer.style path alias

To make your site available from `primer.style/my-site`, you'll have to first add a `pathPrefix` field in your `gatsby-config.js` file:

```diff
module.exports = {
  ...
+ pathPrefix: '/my-site',
}
```

Check out [Gatsby's pathPrefix docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/path-prefix/) for more information.

After your `pathPrefix` is set up, open a pull request on the [primer/primer.style](https://github.com/primer/primer.style) repository to add your site to the [rules.json](https://github.com/primer/primer.style/blob/master/rules.json) file:

```diff
{
  "rules": [
    {"pathname": "/components**", "dest": "primer-components.now.sh"},
    {"pathname": "/css**", "dest": "primer-css.now.sh"},
    {"pathname": "/design**", "dest": "primer-design.now.sh"},
    {"pathname": "/blueprints**", "dest": "primer-blueprints.now.sh"},
    {"pathname": "/presentations**", "dest": "primer-presentations.now.sh"},
+   {"pathname": "/my-site**", "dest": "my-site.now.sh"},
    {"dest": "primer-style.now.sh"}
  ]
}
```

Once your pull request is approved and merged, you should be able to access your site at `primer.style/my-site`! 🎉

## What's next?

Check out the [guides](#) for more information about customizing your new site.

Commit message:

Mention repoRootPath option in getting started guide

packages/example/src/pages/getting-started.mdx, after:

---
title: Getting started
---

This guide will walk you through creating, customizing, and deploying a new site with Doctocat using our [template repository](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-template). If you have an existing repository where you would like to create a new site, we recommend using the Gatsby CLI instead. Check out the [Gatsby CLI guide](/guides/gatsby-cli) for more information.

## 1. Create a new repository from the template

Use the [Doctocat template](https://github.com/primer/doctocat-starter) to create a new repository. See "[Creating a repository from a template](https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-repository-from-a-template)" for more information about using template repositories.

![Use this template button](https://help.github.com/assets/images/help/repository/use-this-template-button.png)

Let's check out the directory structure of your new repository:

```
.
├── gatsby-config.js
├── src
│   ├── pages
│   └── @primer
│       └── gatsby-theme-carbon
├── package.json
└── now.json
```

- `gatsby-config.js`: This is your [Gatsby configuration](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/gatsby-config/), where you can specify information about your site (such as title and description), and any additional [Gatsby plugins](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/plugins/).
- `src/`: This directory will contain all of your site's content and any supporting files such as assets and custom React components.
  - `pages/`: This is where you will spend most of your time writing documentation. Markdown files (`.md` or `.mdx`) in `src/pages/` will be interpreted as [MDX](https://mdxjs.com/), a combination of standard Markdown and [React JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/jsx-in-depth.html). Each document [becomes a page](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/recipes/#creating-pages) on your site with a URL based on its path relative to `src/pages/`.
  - `@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/`: You can use this directory to customize the look and behavior of the theme. All files placed in this directory will "shadow" files in the `src` directory of the Doctocat theme. Check out "[What is Component Shadowing?](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/blog/2019-04-29-component-shadowing/)" for more information.
- `package.json`: This file contains metadata like the project's name, repository, and a list of packages the project depends on. Check out the [package.json docs](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json) for more information.
- `now.json`: When using [Now](https://zeit.co/now) to deploy, the configuration for your deployment is read from this file. Check out the [now.json docs](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/deployments/configuration/?query=now.json) for more information. Feel free to delete this file if you don't plan to deploy your site or want to use a different deployment service, like [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) or [Surge](https://surge.sh/).

## 2. Update your site metadata

After you've created the repository, you'll want to customize the information about your site. Start by replacing the site metadata in the `gatsby-config.js` file:

```diff
module.exports = {
  siteMetadata: {
-   name: 'Doctocat Template',
-   description: 'A Doctocat template site.',
+   name: 'My Site',
+   description: 'My site description.',
  },
  ...
}
```

Next, open the `package.json` file and update the `name` and `repository` field:

```diff
{
- "name": "doctocat-template",
- "repository": "primer/doctocat-template",
+ "name": "my-site",
+ "respository": "my-username/my-site",
  ...
}
```

_Note: Doctocat uses the [`repository`](https://docs.npmjs.com/files/package.json#repository) field in `package.json` as well as the [`repoRootPath` theme option](/theme-options) in `gatsby-config.js` to generate edit links for every page._

You'll also want to update the `name` field in the `now.json` file:

```diff
{
- "name": "doctocat-template"
+ "name": "my-site"
  ...
}
```

## 3. Add your content

Next, go ahead and put your Markdown documents (`.md` or `.mdx`) in `src/pages/`. Documents in `src/pages/` automatically become pages with URLs based on their path relative to `src/pages/`. For example, if you create a `src/pages/components/box.md` file, Gatsby will use the content of that file to create a `/components/box` page.

## 4. Update navigation

Side navigation for your site is generated from the content in `src/@primer/gatsby-theme-doctocat/nav.yml`. After you've put your documents in `src/pages/`, update that `nav.yml` file accordingly:

```yml
- title: Example
  url: '/example'
  items:
    - title: Example 2
      url: '/example/example-2'
```

## 5. Deploy to Now

After you've customized the content of your site, you're ready to deploy. There are many ways to deploy your site but we recommend using [Now](https://zeit.co/now). The easiest way to deploy to Now is with their GitHub integration. You'll need to create a Now account, connect your GitHub account, then enable the integration for your repository. Check out the [Now for GitHub docs](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/integrations/now-for-github/) for more detailed instructions.

Once you have the GitHub integration set up, you should be able to access your site from a prefixed `.now.sh` domain.

## 6. Set up primer.style path alias

To make your site available from `primer.style/my-site`, you'll have to first add a `pathPrefix` field in your `gatsby-config.js` file:

```diff
module.exports = {
  ...
+ pathPrefix: '/my-site',
}
```

Check out [Gatsby's pathPrefix docs](https://www.gatsbyjs.org/docs/path-prefix/) for more information.

After your `pathPrefix` is set up, open a pull request on the [primer/primer.style](https://github.com/primer/primer.style) repository to add your site to the [rules.json](https://github.com/primer/primer.style/blob/master/rules.json) file:

```diff
{
  "rules": [
    {"pathname": "/components**", "dest": "primer-components.now.sh"},
    {"pathname": "/css**", "dest": "primer-css.now.sh"},
    {"pathname": "/design**", "dest": "primer-design.now.sh"},
    {"pathname": "/blueprints**", "dest": "primer-blueprints.now.sh"},
    {"pathname": "/presentations**", "dest": "primer-presentations.now.sh"},
+   {"pathname": "/my-site**", "dest": "my-site.now.sh"},
    {"dest": "primer-style.now.sh"}
  ]
}
```

Once your pull request is approved and merged, you should be able to access your site at `primer.style/my-site`! 🎉

## What's next?

Check out the [guides](#) for more information about customizing your new site.
